To install MySQL, you're going to want to open up a
browser and navigate to www.mysql.com.
You're going to see a landing page like this.
The first thing we want to do is go to the Downloads tab and
scroll to the bottom of there past their commercial offerings to
the GPL edition, or the Community edition.
I'm going to select that and go to the MySQL Community Server.
There's various offerings that they have, such as their
clustering capabilities and fabric and router.
We just want the MySQL Community Server.
Now there's a few options or ways that you can download MySQL, and we're
going to use the MySQL Installer that's web‑based. You'll see options to
download the complete bundle. We're just going to choose this MySQL
Installer, and it will take us to two options,
the 1.7 MB version and the 386 MB version.
If you're choosing the web version, you know you're going to be connected,
which is what I'm going to do, then look for the smaller download.
It may change in size with a future release, but right now that's 1.7
MB for me. I'm going to click Download, and it's going to try to get me
to sign up for a free account or log in if I have an existing account.
You can do this if you want updates and notifications or access to
their forums, but I'm just going to go ahead and say no thanks and
start my download.
This will go ahead and download that web installer, which since
it's small it's a relatively fast install.
We're going to go ahead and choose Run, and when this
comes up it will give us the option to install just the
custom installation that we want.
The developer default isn't bad, but the custom installation will allow us
to choose just the couple of pieces that we care about.
So I'm going to choose Custom and Next, and then I'm going to
navigate down to the SQL instance of just the server, so MySQL
Server 5.7.17, and add that, and then I'm going to add the MySQL
Connector and only the MySQL Connector/J.
And then underneath Applications, we want the Workbench as well.
So I'm going to choose the MySQL Workbench.
So those three files, the MySQL Server 5.7, MySQL Workbench 6.3, and the
MySQL Connector/J 5.1, and go ahead and click Next.
It will go through and download these.
It'll take it a second.
MySQL Server is the largest of the downloads so it'll probably
the last one to finish, but once this is done we can then go
ahead and start installing these and configuring them to run
inside of our application.
The configuration for these will also prompt you if you have a
previous version installed so that you don't potentially write over
any databases that you may have out there.
Once MySQL is done installing,
we'll click Next and it will ask us if we want to configure this instance,
which we do.
So we're going to click Next. Now, I'm going to choose the defaults here.
The configuration type is Development Machine and the port number is 3306.
If you do not want to run on that port for some reason,
make sure you write it down because when we create
our data source in the next demo, you will need to know that port.
So I'm going to leave it as the default of 3306 and click Next, and then I'm
going to add a root password of just password. Since this is a development
machine and it doesn't have any sensitive data on there,
I'm just going to use password and password.
I know it's weak. It's fine because there's nothing sensitive in there.
I'll click Next. Then it will allow me to choose this to be ran as a
Windows service and to start that service at system startup,
which I'm going to click Next on that as well.
I don't want to use this as a document store, so I'm going to leave that
unchecked, and click Next and Execute. Now that this is completed I'll
click Finish, and it will allow me to go through and start the MySQL
Workbench after setup. We'll click Finish. And this will go through and
launch a local instance for me, and if you've used the MySQL Workbench
in the past, this has changed quite a bit recently. It has this Local instance,
I'm going to click on it, and it will bring me into the Workbench. From here,
I can go over in the Schemas navigator and right‑click and say Create
Schema, and I'm going to create one called ride_tracker.
You can choose different collations.
If you are aware of what those collations are, then you already
know what you're looking for, but you can choose if you want
UTF‑8 or some other character set.
I'm going to leave it as the server default and click Apply, and
it will create that schema for me. Click Finish. And for now,
there's no tables inside of here.
I can click on all these, but they're all empty.
So I have ride_tracker and Tables, Views,
Stored Procedures, Functions, but there's nothing in those.
If you used a different name other than ride_tracker, just like that port,
you'll want to write that down because as we go through and
configure our JDBC URL in the next demo, you're going to need that information as well.